JOE LIEBERMAN'S GONNA BE
THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE,
HE'S GONNA BE THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES!
HE'S GIVING A STATE
OF THE NATION ADDRESS
AT 3:15 P.M. TOMORROW.
IT IS THE MOST
INTENSE WEEK IN POLITICS
THAT THIS COUNTRY - MAYBE
EVEN THE WORLD - KNOWS.
I KNEW THE PRIMARIES
WERE HOW THEY PICK
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE GONNA
RUN FOR PRESIDENT.
I DIDN'T REALIZE
THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE NEW
HAMPSHIRE ONE.
IT'S REALLY VERY
EXCITING, ACTUALLY.
IT'S FANTASTIC
TO BE HERE.
PEOPLE TOLD ME IT WAS
GONNA BE SOMETHING
I'D REMEMBER FOR
THE REST OF MY LIFE,
AND I KNOW
THAT IT WILL.
AND THIS NOTE: THE SEVENTH
MAJOR CANDIDATE IN THE
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY RACE,
THE REVEREND AL SHARPTON,
IS NOT IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE TODAY.
THERE IS SO
MUCH AT STAKE.
CAMPAIGNS ARE LITERALLY
FIGHTING FOR THEIR LIVES.
THE ENTIRE FOCUS OF
THE POLITICAL WORLD
IS ON THIS VERY
SMALL STAGE.
THE FINAL STAGES
OF PRIMARY SEASON
WILL SOON BE
UPON US...
MASSACHUSETTS
SENATOR JOHN KERRY
WITH A STUNNING
VICTORY IN IOWA...
NORTH CAROLINA
SENATOR JOHN EDWARDS
IS RIDING A WAVE INTO
NEW HAMPSHIRE AS WELL
WITH A VERY STRONG
SECOND-PLACE SHOWING.
HOWARD DEAN
DISAPPOINTS,
BUT PROMISES THE BATTLE
WILL CONTINUE HERE.
TODAY THERE'S A LOT
OF TALK ABOUT IOWA,
BUT TOMORROW NEW HAMPSHIRE
IS A NEW BALL GAME!
NEW HAMPSHIRE DECIDED
IN 1916 WHEN IT WOULD
HAVE ITS PRIMARIES,
BUT THEY WERE NOT
THE FIRST STATE
TO HAVE A PRIMARY.
BUT THEY SET THE DATE
OF THEIR PRIMARY TO BE
AT THE SAME DAY THAT THEY
HAD THEIR TOWN MEETINGS,
AND THAT TURNED OUT TO
BE THE EARLIEST DATE.
AND AFTER A FEW
PRIMARY YEARS,
THEY REALIZED WHAT A
GREAT ADVANTAGE THIS WAS,
AND THEY PASSED
LEGISLATION EVENTUALLY
THAT MANDATED THAT THEY
MUST BE THE FIRST STATE.
FIRST IN THE NATION PRIMARY:
NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTES.
ALL RIGHT. GREAT TO
BE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
WE JUST NEED SOME
MORE SNOW UP HERE.
THANK YOU.
PEOPLE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE,
BECAUSE OF THIS
HISTORY OF BEING
THE FIRST STATE
AND HAVING THE EYES
OF THE NATION ON THEM
AND ALL THE MEDIA
DESCEND ON THEM,
TAKE THIS VERY SERIOUSLY
AND STUDY THE CANDIDATES
AND SCRUTINIZE
THE CANDIDATES.
SOME NEW
HAMPSHIREITES SAY,
"I NEVER VOTE FOR A
CANDIDATE I HAVEN'T MET"
WHICH YOU COULD NEVER
SAY IN ANOTHER STATE.
I'VE SEEN THE OTHER
FOUR MAJOR CANDIDATES
IN THE LAST 24
HOURS, AND WE'RE
JUST TRYING TO
SEE ALL OF THEM.
OFTENTIMES THESE VOTERS
WILL CHECK PEOPLE OUT
SEVERAL TIMES BEFORE
THEY'LL MAKE A DECISION.
IT'S LIKE THE WEEK
BEFORE CHRISTMAS,
AND YOU KEEP GOING
BACK TO THE SAME STORE
BEFORE YOU FINALLY
MAKE THE PURCHASE.
I'VE BEEN TO TWO
SPEECHES THAT JOHN KERRY
HAS ADDRESSED
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
PLEASED TO MEET YOU.
- NICE TO MEET YOU, TOO.
NEW HAMPSHIRE'S
VOTERS UNDERSTAND
THAT THEIR VOTE IN
THE PRIMARY IS REALLY
THEIR MOST SIGNIFICANT
POLITICAL POSSESSION,
AND THEY DON'T
GIVE IT AWAY
ANY SOONER THAN
THEY HAVE TO.
I JUST FEEL A SENSE
OF RESPONSIBILITY
TO COME OUT AND LEARN
AS MUCH AS I CAN
ABOUT THEM AND
SEE THEM FIRSTHAND.
I'M IMPRESSED
WITH JOHN KERRY,
I'M IMPRESSED WITH EDWARDS
AND WITH WES CLARK,
AND I HAVEN'T MADE
UP MY MIND YET
SO I WANTED TO HEAR
THEM IN PERSON.
NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTERS
WILL ANSWER HONESTLY
A POLLSTER'S QUESTION:
"IF THE PRIMARY WERE TODAY,
WHO WOULD YOU VOTE FOR?"
BUT THEY DON'T FEEL IN
ANSWERING THAT QUESTION
THAT BINDS THEM TO VOTE
THAT WAY WHEN IT COMES.
I THINK WHAT ALWAYS
SURPRISES THE CANDIDATES
IS HOW SOFT THE SUPPORT
IS, HOW FAST IT MOVES.
IT HAS TENDED TO MOVE
ALL IN ONE DIRECTION.
IT DOESN'T FRACTURE.
MY TAKE ON THE
POLLS IS THAT
THE PEOPLE IN
NEW HAMPSHIRE,
PARTICULARLY
INDEPENDENT VOTERS,
MAKE UP THEIR
MINDS VERY LATE,
AND SO IT WOULDN'T
BE AT ALL ASTONISHING
TO ME IN ANY WAY THAT
THERE'S SOME SURPRISES.
A POT FULL OF PRIMARY
GOLD: UNDECIDED VOTERS.
HE'S BANKING
ON THE BACKING
OF UNDECIDED AND
INDEPENDENT VOTERS.
IN THE NEW
HAMPSHIRE PRIMARY,
DEMOCRATS AND
INDEPENDENTS VOTE.
WHAT WE HAVE UP HERE IS
AN OPEN-PRIMARY SYSTEM.
YOU CAN REGISTER AS
AN UNDECLARED VOTER
OR AS AN INDEPENDENT,
AND THEN ON PRIMARY DAY
YOU CAN SHOW UP
AT THE POLLS,
DECLARE YOURSELF A MEMBER
OF A PARTICULAR PARTY
FOR PURPOSES OF
VOTING, AND THEN
YOU IMMEDIATELY CHANGE
YOUR REGISTRATION BACK
TO UNDECLARED
OR INDEPENDENT
AFTER YOU LEAVE
THE VOTING BOOTH.
YOU CAN ACTUALLY
SHOW UP AND REGISTER
ON THE DAY OF
THE ELECTIONS.
IF YOU ARE A MEMBER
OF A PARTY, HOWEVER,
YOU EITHER VOTE IN
YOUR PARTY'S PRIMARY,
OR YOU CAN CHANGE
YOUR PARTY AFFILIATION
BEFORE THE ACTUAL VOTE.
ABOUT A THIRD OF
REGISTERED VOTERS
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE ARE
UNDECLARED OR INDEPENDENT.
ANOTHER THIRD
ARE REPUBLICAN.
25% ARE DEMOCRATS.
SO WE HAVE FEWER
REGISTERED DEMOCRATS
IN THE STATE
THAN REPUBLICANS
AND/OR THESE UNDECLARED
OR INDEPENDENT VOTERS.
THE SENSE IS THAT IT
CLEARLY SPURS TURNOUT
AMONG VOTERS WHO
MIGHT NOT TYPICALLY
PARTICIPATE IN
A CLOSED PRIMARY.
ACCORDING TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
BILL GARDNER SAYS HE
EXPECTS SOME 184,000 PEOPLE
TO VOTE IN THE
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY
AND MORE THAN 100,000 IN
THE REPUBLICAN CONTEST.
NOWHERE ELSE IN THE
COUNTRY DO PEOPLE VOTE
IN THE NUMBERS THAT
NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTES.
72% OF PEOPLE ELIGIBLE
TO VOTE, VOTE.
WHICH IS WHY I THINK
NEW HAMPSHIRE IS A
VERY GOOD INDICATOR OF
GENERAL ELECTION SUCCESS.
PRESIDENT DEAN!
NEW HAMPSHIRE
IS MIGHTY COLD!
THERE'S A HEIGHTENED
SENSE OF AWARENESS
AND SENSITIVITY TO BEING
INVOLVED IN POLITICS.
PEOPLE DO IT IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE NOT TO GET RICH,
NOT TO GET FAME, BUT
THEY DO IT BECAUSE
IT'S THE RIGHT
THING TO DO.
POLITICS IS A
PASSION UP HERE.
YOU'VE GOT PEOPLE
SPENDING MILLIONS
AND MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS
TELLING YOU HOW
IMPORTANT IT IS.
IT DOMINATES YOUR
EVERY WAKING MOMENT
IN TERMS OF
THE LOCAL NEWS.
I THINK YOU KIND OF
IMPOSE CIVIC OBLIGATION
TO TAKE PART AND
THAT DRIVES NUMBERS.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT
HAPPENS, CLEARLY,
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
YOU NEED MONEY,
YOU NEED TIME.
...KERRY USING A HELICOPTER
TO CROSS THE STATE TODAY.
HE BEGAN ON
THE SEACOAST...
YOU NEED AN ORGANIZATION
THAT KNOWS THE STATE,
THAT UNDERSTANDS THE
DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES
THAT THE STATE
HAS GONE THROUGH
OVER THE LAST 20 YEARS.
I WAS GONNA ASK IF YOU
WOULD PLEASE VOTE FOR ME.
ABSOLUTELY.
YOU NEED AN EFFICIENT
RETAIL POLITICS EXPERIENCE
BECAUSE SO MUCH OF
WHAT VOTERS WANT HERE
IS DIRECT CONTACT
WITH THE CANDIDATES.
I WAS KIND OF ALREADY
PARTIAL TO HIM,
BUT HE MADE SOME
GOOD POINTS IN THERE
AND IT WAS REALLY
WONDERFUL TO HAVE HIM
STOP BY AND TAKE
THE TIME LIKE THIS.
IN CONCORD,
SENATOR JOHN EDWARDS
HELD HIS 104th
TOWN HALL MEETING.
IT'S NOT SIMPLY A MATTER
OF IF YOU MEET MORE VOTERS
YOUR POLL NUMBERS
WILL GO UP.
EVERY FOUR YEARS,
CANDIDATES THINK,
"IF I JUST DO ANOTHER TEN
TOWN MEETINGS OR I JUST
DO ANOTHER 20 EVENTS
WHERE I MEET THE PUBLIC,
THAT'S GONNA MAKE
THE DIFFERENCE."
SOMETIMES IT DOES AND
SOMETIMES IT DOESN'T.
YOU HAVE TO MEET THEM,
BUT YOU ALSO HAVE TO
PROVIDE THEM AN
INTERESTING RATIONALE
FOR SUPPORTING THEM.
I'M HERE RUNNING TO
BE THE NEXT PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES
BECAUSE I WANT TO
BRING A HIGHER STANDARD
OF LEADERSHIP TO AMERICA.
GENERAL CLARK'S
BEEN VERY EFFECTIVE
AT COMMUNICATING A
MESSAGE OF HOPE TO PEOPLE.
I THINK THAT'S
WHAT PEOPLE WANT:
TO KNOW THAT TOMORROW'S
GONNA BE BETTER THAN TODAY,
AND THE MORE WE
COMMUNICATE THAT,
THE MORE
PEOPLE RESPOND.
I'M THE STRONGEST CANDIDATE
TO BEAT GEORGE BUSH.
I'LL STAND UP AND SAY
WHAT'S NOT POPULAR
IF I THINK IT'S RIGHT, AND
I'VE DONE THAT ALL MY LIFE.
YOU HAVE TO FIND
YOUR VOICE EARLY.
YOU CAN'T KEEP
TRYING OUT MESSAGES
AND REINVENTING YOURSELF.
THE VOTER IS TOO
SMART FOR THAT.
I'M JUST WORKING AS
HARD AS I KNOW HOW.
SENATOR KERRY HELD
FIVE EVENTS TODAY
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE,
ALL OVER THE STATE...
YOU KNOW, IF THE PARTY
BOSSES JUST GATHER IN A
SMOKE-FILLED ROOM ON THE
EVE OF THE CONVENTION
AND CHOOSE THE CANDIDATE,
THEY DON'T NECESSARILY
KNOW WHETHER THAT
PERSON CAN HANDLE
THE KIND OF PRESSURE
THAT A CANDIDATE
SOMETIMES COMES UNDER
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
THE PRIMARY SYSTEM
IS THE BEST SYSTEM.
THEY BEGIN TALKING ABOUT
THINGS ON THE STUMP.
...SAID HE'D KEEP THE
ECONOMY GROWING.
WHAT'S HAPPENED?
NOTHING!
THEY GET MORE INFORMATION
BY TALKING TO REAL PEOPLE,
THEY HEAR ABOUT OTHER
ISSUES AND THAT INFORMS
HOW THEY GO ABOUT
PRESENTING THEIR CASE
TO THE VOTERS.
BUT YOU ALSO HAVE TO
PUT TOGETHER A TEAM
NATIONWIDE IF YOU'RE
GONNA RUN FOR PRESIDENT.
...AND THE
JOBS WITH THEM,
AND STICK THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WITH THE BILL.
THAT'S OVER!
THERE'S THE "IT" FACTOR.
A CANDIDATE WILL STRIKE
FOLKS JUST RIGHT.
WHEN GEORGE W. BUSH FIRST
CAME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE,
HE HAD ALMOST A
ROCK-STAR QUALITY TO HIM.
EVERYBODY
WANTED TO BE THERE.
THE EVENTS WERE SOLD OUT.
HOWARD DEAN DID THE
SAME THING HERE.
THAT CROWD MENTALITY
AND THE SENSE OF
MOMENTUM BUILT THERE
THAT, "HEY, THIS GUY'S
REALLY PUTTING
IT TOGETHER."
THAT CAN ONLY BE
ACCOMPLISHED, I THINK,
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE BY BEING
HERE, TALKING TO PEOPLE,
MEETING PEOPLE.
PERSONAL COMMUNICATION
SKILLS ARE VERY IMPORTANT.
PEOPLE TRY TO
SIZE YOU UP WHEN
THEY DON'T KNOW
MUCH ABOUT YOU
AND YOUR HUMAN QUALITIES
BECOME VERY IMPORTANT.
I THINK LATER ON IT'S
A QUESTION OF MESSAGE,
OF CONTENT, AND OF JUST
SIMPLE PHYSICAL ENERGY.
I THINK VOTERS
DO GET HERE,
MORE THAN ANYWHERE ELSE,
THE OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE
THAT KIND OF FACE-TO-FACE
CONTACT WITH CANDIDATES.
PEOPLE CATCH FIRE,
AND THEN THAT BECOMES
DIFFICULT TO STOP.
...LOWER CLASS CAN'T
AFFORD THOSE DRUGS.
THEY'RE SO EXPENSIVE
THAT, I KNOW MYSELF...
PEOPLE COME UP TO
CANDIDATES AND ASK THEM
THE DARNDEST THINGS
ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL.
IT TESTS THEIR
METTLE, I THINK,
AND IT DOES SO EARLY
ENOUGH IN THE PROCESS
THAT YOU CAN WEED
OUT PEOPLE WHO
MAYBE LOOK
GREAT ON PAPER,
BUT THEY END UP BEING
TERRIBLE CAMPAIGNERS.
PEOPLE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO INTERACT WITH THIS
PERSON WHO WANTS TO BE
THEIR REPRESENTATIVE,
ON A PERSONAL,
ONE-TO-ONE LEVEL.
RARELY DO YOU HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO INTERACT
WITH A PRESIDENT OR A
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE.
THAT CAN BE INSPIRING.
WELL, GREAT. WE SURE
DO APPRECIATE YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
SO IT COMES OUT IN
A DATABASE AND THEN
YOU CAN PRINT IT OUT BY
STREET, I GUESS, RIGHT?
SO YOU KNOW IF YOU'RE
GOING UP THE STREET,
WHO'S WHERE,
RIGHT?
SO WE CAN GET
CANVASSING DONE.
RIGHT. GREAT.
HOW LONG HAVE
YOU BEEN HERE?
A LITTLE OVER A WEEK.
WE HAVE PEOPLE FLYING IN
FROM ALL OVER THE COUNTRY -
COLLEGE STUDENTS,
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS,
SOME WORKING ON
THEIR FIRST CAMPAIGN.
GOING DOOR TO DOOR,
CALLING PEOPLE
ON THE PHONES,
ET CETERA.
THE NATURE OF A
CAMPAIGN STAFF IS
IT'S NORMALLY
YOUNG PEOPLE.
WE HAD AN EXTRAORDINARY
AMOUNT OF COLLEGE STUDENTS
WHO WERE INVOLVED IN
OUR CAMPAIGN WHO WERE
VERY INTERESTED,
VERY ARTICULATE,
VERY ENERGETIC, AND THEY
WANTED TO GET INVOLVED
AND THEY DID.
IT'S EXCITING FOR THEM.
IF YOU HAVE A BURNING
DESIRE TO SERVE THE PUBLIC,
YOU GET INVOLVED
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
I REALLY ENJOYED EDWARDS.
GETTING TO WATCH HIM SPEAK
WAS SO MOVING FOR ME.
AND WATCHING
THE CROWD JUST
GET SO INVOLVED
IN THE MUSIC
AND HIM ANSWERING
QUESTIONS IN THE MEDIA,
I GOT TO REALLY GET
INVOLVED IN THAT ASPECT.
THE CANDIDATES AND
THEIR CAMPAIGN WORKERS
AREN'T THE ONLY
ONES PUTTING IN
A LOT OF EXTRA HOURS
HEADING INTO PRIMARY DAY.
WITH ALL EYES
ON NEW HAMPSHIRE,
MEDIA HAVE ARRIVED FROM
ALL OVER THE WORLD.
NEW HAMPSHIRE IS JUST
OVERFLOWING WITH
PEOPLE IN THE MEDIA;
NOT JUST FROM THE
NETWORKS AND THE MAJOR
NEWSPAPERS IN AMERICA,
BUT ALSO FROM
LOCAL STATIONS.
AND THE INTERNATIONAL
MEDIA ARE THERE.
THE EARLY PRIMARIES
ARE HEAVILY COVERED
BY THE MEDIA.
WE EDIT, WE SHOOT.
WE EDIT CLIP REELS, WE
FEED MATERIAL BACK TO
ABC NEWS TO BE USED ON
ALL THE NETWORK SHOWS.
IN ADDITION WE'RE
SENDING OUT E-MAILS,
WE'RE KEEPING OUR
NETWORK INFORMED.
WE'RE PRETTY MUCH
THE EYES AND EARS
OF THE CAMPAIGN.
WE HAVE 14 CAMERAS
ON THE EVENT TODAY.
VERY HARD TO PREDICT
HOW BIG - ANY EVENT -
HOW BIG THE PRESS IS.
SO WE TRY TO HAVE AS MUCH
SPACE AVAILABLE FOR THEM,
BUT SOMETIMES, LIKE TODAY,
THE ROOM IS PACKED.
IN 1996, THERE
WOULD BE PERHAPS
FOUR OR FIVE
TELEVISION CAMERAS.
TODAY YOU HAVE
CLOSE TO 20.
BUT NOW YOU HAVE TO
FIGHT, LITERALLY,
WITH YOUR ARMS,
YOUR ELBOWS.
PROBABLY THE
BIGGEST INNOVATION
IS THE ADVENT OF
DIGITAL VIDEO,
DIGITAL AUDIO -
THE DIGITAL WORLD.
IT USED TO BE IT WOULD
BE A PROCESS OF DAYS.
NOW IT'S A
PROCESS OF MINUTES.
BOOM, IT'S OFF
ON THE NET.
IT'S OFF TO THE
TELEVISION NETWORKS.
AND BOOM, IT'S ON THE
AIR WITHIN 10 MINUTES.
IT'S THE SPEED,
IT'S THE TURNOVER,
IT'S THE REGURGITATION
OF THINGS THAT'S SO MUCH
MORE IMPORTANT THAN
LOOKING AT MAJOR ISSUES.
AND ALL OF THIS HAS
BEEN MULTIPLIED
BY THE ROLE OF
THE INTERNET.
AND SO IF YOU HAPPEN TO GET
ON TO A CANDIDATE WEBSITE,
YOU CAN FIND
INFORMATION ABOUT
WHERE THEY
STAND ON ISSUES,
WHAT THE CANDIDATES'
SPEECHES ARE,
WHAT THEIR ADS ARE -
YOU CAN SEE ALL OF THIS.
THE OVERARCHING MOTIVE FOR
EVERY CAMPAIGN IS IMAGE.
JOE LIEBERMAN
UNDERSTANDS THAT
WHEN YOU STRENGTHEN
THE MIDDLE CLASS,
YOU STRENGTHEN
AMERICA.
THE WEEK LEADING UP TO
A PRIMARY, OF COURSE,
IT'S WALL-TO-WALL ADS.
YOU CAN'T TURN
ON YOUR TELEVISION
WITHOUT SEEING THEM.
THERE'S OVER 150 TO
200 ADS ON PER DAY.
THEY'LL BE SPENDING WELL
CLOSE TO $15 MILLION
ON ADVERTISING.
..BECAUSE WE NEED
AN ECONOMY THAT WORKS
FOR ALL OF US.
PEOPLE VOTE WITH
A POSITIVE REASON,
AND THEY HAVE
MULTIPLE ALTERNATIVES.
AND THAT'S WHY,
TRADITIONALLY
AND HISTORICALLY,
THE ADS AT PRIMARY
ARE VERY MUCH POSITIVE.
IN A GENERAL ELECTION,
THEY'RE 50-50 POSITIVE
TO NEGATIVE.
I WAS BORN
50 YEARS AGO...
THE ADS TEND TO BE
HEAVILY BIOGRAPHICAL,
BECAUSE WHAT
THE CANDIDATES
ARE TRYING TO DO IS
GET THE ATTENTION
OF THE PUBLIC AND
TELL WHO THEY ARE.
...BY TURNING A
DEFICIT INTO A SURPLUS,
CREATING JOBS, RAISING
THE MINIMUM WAGE TWICE...
YOU'LL LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE CANDIDATES
FROM THEIR ADS
IN TERMS OF FACTS
ABOUT THE CANDIDATES
AND WHERE THEY STAND
THAN YOU WILL
FROM THE NEWS.
...AND A PRESCRIPTION
DRUG BENEFIT FOR SENIORS.
A FRONTRUNNER STUMBLING,
A CHALLENGER SURGING,
AND TWO MEN
WHO ARE STAKING
THEIR POLITICAL FUTURE
ON NEW HAMPSHIRE.
THE KIND OF COVERAGE THAT
THE MEDIA TEND TO GIVE
IS WHAT IS CALLED
"HORSE RACE COVERAGE",
WHO'S AHEAD
AND WHO'S BEHIND.
...WITH SENATOR JOHN
KERRY WAY OUT IN FRONT,
HOLDING STEADY, HOPING
TO PARLAY HIS IOWA WIN...
THE CANDIDATES ARE TRYING
TO GET OUT THEIR MESSAGE,
AND SO IT'S A
COMPETITIVE SITUATION.
DOWN, PLEASE.
ALL RIGHT, BACK
UP! GIVE HIM SPACE!
BACK IT UP,
BACK IT UP!
RIGHT HERE.
SENATOR KERRY WAS
IN TOWN TODAY
TALKING ABOUT
RENEWABLE ENERGY...
NO, YOU GOTTA GET DOWN!
YOU GUYS
GOTTA GET DOWN!
AT SOME POINT IN THE CYCLE
MOST MEDIA OUTLETS MAKE
A RESOURCE-BASED DECISION
OR POLITICAL CALCULATION
ABOUT WHO IS
OR IS NOT VIABLE.
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN, OVER THE
COURSE OF THREE WEEKS,
I WENT FROM, ACCORDING
TO THE POLLS,
FIVE PERCENT TO
30-SOMETHING PERCENT.
SO IT'S HARD FOR SOME
OF THESE CANDIDATES
TO GET MUCH
FREE COVERAGE.
REACTION TO
PRESIDENT BUSH'S
STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS...
IF THERE'S SOME KIND
OF WORLD EVENT WHICH
THE INCUMBENT PRESIDENT
HAS TO DEAL WITH,
THE INCUMBENT PRESIDENT, YOU
KNOW, GETS THE HEADLINES.
THANKS TO ALL OF YOU FOR
COMING OUT HERE TONIGHT
TO JOIN US, TO WATCH
THE STATE OF THE UNION,
AND TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT OUR COUNTRY.
LET'S WATCH, AND THEN LET'S
TALK ABOUT IT AFTERWARDS.
WE HAVE FACED SERIOUS
CHALLENGES TOGETHER,
AND NOW WE
FACE A CHOICE.
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
PRESIDENTS WHO HAVE
REALLY CHAFED AT THE
FACT THAT THE OTHER PARTY
WAS GETTING ALL
OF THIS ATTENTION.
SO WHEN THE DEMOCRATS
WERE CAMPAIGNING AND
COMPETING AMONG
THEMSELVES IN 2004,
HERE WAS THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES
LOOKING VERY
PRESIDENTIAL
AND REPORTING
TO CONGRESS.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
ARE SHOWING THAT
THE STATE OF OUR UNION
IS CONFIDENT AND STRONG.
THIS PRESIDENT IS
IN A STATE OF DENIAL
ABOUT THE STATE
OF THE UNION.
THAT HE HAS NO REAL
VISION FOR OUR FUTURE
AND NO PLAN TO
GET US THERE.
THE UNION OF THE
SPECIAL INTERESTS
AND THE INSIDERS IN
WASHINGTON IS STRONG.
THE PROBLEM IS THERE
ARE A LOT OF AMERICANS
WHO ARE STRUGGLING
EVERY SINGLE DAY.
IF YOU COULD THINK
OF A WAY TO EXPRESS
YOUR MAIN IDEA
IN YOUR CAMPAIGN
IN A VIVID WAY THAT
EVERYBODY WOULD REMEMBER,
THAT MAKES YOU STAND
OUT FROM THE PACK.
AND THAT'S ONE OF THE
THINGS YOU HAVE TO DO
IN THE PRIMARY.
SO, IN 2004 JOHN
EDWARDS USED A THEME:
"THE TWO AMERICAS".
...ONE FOR
THE PRIVILEGED,
ANOTHER RATIONED BY
INSURANCE COMPANIES.
TWO PUBLIC
SCHOOL SYSTEMS:
ONE FOR THE HAVES AND
ONE FOR EVERYBODY ELSE.
AND THAT IDEA RESONATED
AND WAS EASY TO REMEMBER.
...WORKING FAMILIES
PAY MORE.
TWO GOVERNMENTS: ONE
FOR POWERFUL INTERESTS
AND LOBBYISTS, THE OTHER
FOR THE REST OF US.
AN ADDITIONAL FACTOR IS THAT
THE CANDIDATE BE A FIGHTER.
WE'RE READY TO
FIGHT FOR THE HEART
AND SOUL OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY!
BUT I DECIDED TO
STAY AND FIGHT,
BECAUSE I THINK IF YOU
WANT THIS NOMINATION,
YOU HAVE TO BE
WILLING TO FIGHT
EVERYWHERE IN
THE COUNTRY.
BILL CLINTON, WHO WAS
SLIPPING IN THE POLLS
DUE TO SCANDALS,
DESCRIBED HIS EFFORTS
TO GET BACK AS "FIGHTING
AGAINST THE ODDS."
AND WHEN HE CAME
IN SECOND IN THE
NEW HAMPSHIRE
PRIMARY THAT YEAR,
HE DESCRIBED HIMSELF
AS "THE COMEBACK KID",
WHICH IS A KIND
OF FIGHTER IMAGE.
WELL, I CAN'T TELL
YOU HOW GREAT IT IS
TO COME BACK TO
NEW HAMPSHIRE
AS "THE
COMEBACK KERRY."
BEING THE FIGHTER IS A
VERY DESIRABLE POSITION.
BEING IN THE
MIDDLE OF THINGS
AND SEEING THE
WHOLE IDEA OF
HOW THIS PROCESS WORKS
IS REALLY FASCINATING.
IT'S ONE THING TO
WATCH ON THE NEWS,
IT'S ANOTHER THING
TO BE A PART OF IT
AND MAKE HISTORY.
I DON'T KNOW BUT
I'VE BEEN TOLD...
IT IS SUCH AN IMPORTANT
AND EXCITING PROCESS
BECAUSE DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS SELECT
A CANDIDATE WHO
MIGHT VERY WELL
WIN THE PRESIDENCY
AND LEAD HIS COUNTRY.
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE, THEY HAVE
BEEN VERY GOOD IN PREDICTING
WHO'S GOING TO WIN THE
ELECTION IN THE FALL.
FROM 1952
TO THE PRESENT,
THEY HAVE ONLY
BEEN WRONG TWICE.
THIS WEEK, THE WEEK I
CALL THE SUPER BOWL
OF AMERICAN POLITICS,
EVERYBODY'S INVOLVED.
YOU CANNOT WALK
DOWN THE STREET
WITHOUT MEETING
A CANDIDATE.
THERE ARE SIGNS
EVERYWHERE.
PEOPLE FEEL EMPOWERED.
I THINK PEOPLE KNOW THAT
THAT VOTE IS AS POWERFUL
AN INSTRUMENT TO EFFECT
THE SORT OF POLICY AND
POLITICAL COURSE OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
AS ANY CITIZEN IN
THE COUNTRY HAS,
AND YOU OUGHT
TO USE IT.
AND WE UNDERSTAND THERE'S
AN OBLIGATION THERE.
THIS MATTERS.
AND IT'S LIKE, THE FUTURE
BEGINS WITH US NOW.
IT'S GOOD FOR US TO GET
INVOLVED WITH THINGS
LIKE THIS SO
WE CAN UNDERSTAND
HOW IT'S GONNA BE.
WES CLARK!
AND SO I ASK YOU TO
GO TO THOSE POLLS,
AND DO NOT GO THERE TO
SEND AMERICA A MESSAGE.
GO THERE AND SEND
AMERICA A PRESIDENT,
BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT WE NEED.
THANK YOU VERY,
VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
JOHN KERRY TAKES
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
THE WINNER OF THE IOWA
CAUCUSES MAKES IT
TWO IN A ROW WITH
A STRONG VICTORY OVER
HOWARD DEAN AND HIS
OTHER COMPETITORS.
WELL, I LOVE
NEW HAMPSHIRE!
GRANITE
STATE VOTERS
TONIGHT ANOINTED
THE JUNIOR SENATOR
FROM MASSACHUSETTS AS THE
UNDISPUTED FRONTRUNNER
FOR THE DEMOCRATIC
NOMINATION.
*